Algorithm:

1. Create a hashmap with letter grades,list of student records,and courses to hold name,instructor,credits and grade.
2. If student ID  is not in the student list record, the student is not found.
3. If a student ID is found, proceed with the following as needed.
4. If a course exists in the courses list Update the grade.
5. If the course does not exist, allow student to add a new Course, Instructor Name, Credit , and Grade.
6. Sum the weighted grades to know the total weighted grade
7. Sum Credits for courses with grades to get know the total credits.
7. Devide the total weighed grades by the total credits to get the GPA.
8. If no grade exists, indicate no grades are available.
9. Display Student report, Course Schedule, Course lists with detail,GPA values and Progress reports.

Pseudocode:
Input:student_id, grade_points(Hashmap), student_list that takes in student_id,  courses list which takes in course name, instructor, credits, grade).
Output: studebt report, course schedule, grade,GPA,progress.

1.Create student report that takes in student-id.
2.For every student in student list.
3.If student_id is found in student list.
  -Display student is located.
4.Create show schedule that takes in studen .
5.For every course in student list.
  -Display "Course name, credits"
6.Create add new grade that takes in student,course name,grade,credits.
7.For every course in student list.
8.If course is found in studen list.
   -Display "grade for course name updated to grade"
9.Otherwise Record course name,grade,and credits in the student list.
  -Display course added with new grade.
10.Create calculate GPA that takes student.
11.Initialize total-weighed-grade with zero and total credit with zero.
12.For every course in student list.
13.If grade is gound in grade-points
14.Sum (grade × credits) to total_weighted_grade.
15.Sum credit to total credits.
16.If total credits is equal to zero.
  -Display "no grade is available".
17.Otherwise calculate gpa=total weighted grade/total credits.
  -Display GPA
18.Create show progress that takes in student
19.For course in student list.
   -Display "course name, grade" 
  
